Blog - 5 customer-facing analytics examples (#16553)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/5-of-the-best-customer-facing-analytics-examples.md

Reviewer: the slug/filename can just be `customer-facing-analytics-examples`

## 1. Vercel Analytics: Embedded customer usage dashboard

[Vercel](https://vercel.com/changelog/new-usage-dashboard-for-pro-customers) is the textbook case of a dashboard that customers log in to check. Every project deployed on Vercel ships with a Web Analytics panel that surfaces live visitor counts, top pages, referrers, UTM campaigns, and geographic breakdowns. All one click from the deploy button, with no separate tool to install.

![Vercel's embedded analytics dasboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/vercel_dashboard_5e867b436f.png)

### Why it works 

The detail Vercel has [talked about publicly](https://vercel.com/changelog/new-usage-dashboard-for-pro-customers) is latency: data shows up "seconds after enabling Analytics, not 30 minutes." They treat customer analytics with the same latency expectations as the rest of the product. 

If you've ever hit refresh on a dashboard wondering whether the numbers are actually live or 20 minutes stale, you know why this matters. Customer-facing analytics lose most of their value the moment users stop trusting the numbers are current.

> 

Reviewer 2: Might be a good place to plug the fact that PostHog also just launched a real-time dashboard on Web Analytics (currently in Alpha)

Something subtle at the end like (Good news if you're a PostHog user: ...."

## 2. Booking.com: Live metrics on the landing page

Booking.com has made a science of turning live activity into social proof: "23 people are looking at this hotel right now." "Booked 4 times in the last 6 hours." "Only 2 rooms left at this price." These numbers are pulled from live booking and browsing data and dropped directly onto the property listing.

![Booking.com using Endpoints to create scarcity](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/booking_com_931a76829b.png)

### Why it works

> The analytics aren't a side feature, [industry analysts have credited similar "shopping activation" widgets with lifting direct bookings by close to 50%](https://blog.guestcentric.com/how-hotels-can-leverage-social-proof-to-increase-direct-bookings/). Booking.com figured out that the most valuable customer-facing analytics often aren't in a dashboard. They're in the product where someone is deciding whether to buy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The analytics aren't a side feature, industry analysts have credited similar "shopping activation" widgets with [lifting direct bookings by close to 50%](https://blog.guestcentric.com/how-hotels-can-leverage-social-proof-to-increase-direct-bookings/). Booking.com figured out that the most valuable customer-facing analytics often aren't in a dashboard. They're in the product where someone is deciding whether to buy.
```

![ProductHunt's homepage leaderboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/producthunt_6ca9a9dc9e.png)

### Why it works

The leaderboard is both the recommendation feed for readers and the scoreboard for makers. The more people check it, the more valuable ranking on it becomes. Leaderboards get dismissed as a gimmick, but what Product Hunt did was turn a database of upvotes into the product.

## 4. HogHero: Augmenting support data with user information

One of the ways we use Endpoints is HogHero, our internal Zendesk app. 

When a customer opens a support ticket, HogHero shows our support rep the recent conversations that customer had with PostHog AI before they reached a human. The rep gets the context instantly and they start the conversation already halfway to the answer.

![PostHog HogHero dashboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/posthog_hoghero_877cc43b1c.png)

### Why it works 

> Endpoints data doesn't always need to you to your product, they are an easy way to share customer data with different teams within your organisation and can be a valuable part of your internal workflow. Our support reps don't have to waste time jumping between Zendesk and our analytics tool. The Endpoint exposes a specific piece of data to the user so they don't have to waste time getting lost in data chaos.

Reviewer 2: "Endpoints data doesn't always need to you to your product," > typo here

---
title: The 5 best customer-facing analytics examples (and what to steal from each)
date: 2026-04-23
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
    - lizzie-epton

> featuredImage: >-

Reviewer 2: I think this featureImage being empty is causing the build to break, I'm going to remove it to check

> featuredImageType: full

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

category: General
tags:
    - Workflows
    - Growth
    - Lifecycle messaging
seo:
    metaTitle: "The 5 best customer-facing analytics examples (and what to steal from each)"
    metaDescription: '5 customer-facing analytics examples worth stealing, plus how to ship your own in PostHog without a data team or custom APIs.'
---

Customer-facing analytics is the stats you show your users, not your internal team. Users' usage dashboard, a "23 people are viewing this right now" counter on a product page, a public leaderboard, or how big your support queue is.

> What you probably didn't know is that a lot of this is quietly powered by the same kind of tech under the hood: a fast, authenticated API layer that takes product data and ships it straight into the place users will see it. At PostHog, we call this [Endpoints](/endpoints).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What you probably didn't know is that a lot of this is powered behind the scenes by the same kind of tech: a fast, authenticated API layer that takes product data and ships it straight into the place users will see it. At PostHog, we call this [Endpoints](/endpoints).
```

This is a nitpicky edit but "quietly" is AI's favourite adverb so I cut it whenever I see it now haha

Endpoints are a way to expose your PostHog data as fast, versioned, authenticated APIs you can [drop straight into your product](/docs/endpoints) without maintaining a custom API backend. 

But, rather than telling you what customer-facing analytics is, we’re going to show you five companies who do it really well, and for each one, we've pulled out what's worth copying.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## 1. Vercel Analytics: Embedded customer usage dashboard

> [Vercel](https://vercel.com/changelog/new-usage-dashboard-for-pro-customers) is the textbook case of a dashboard that customers log in to check. Every project deployed on Vercel ships with a Web Analytics panel that surfaces live visitor counts, top pages, referrers, UTM campaigns, and geographic breakdowns. All one click from the deploy button, with no separate tool to install.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Vercel** is the textbook case of a dashboard that customers log in to check. Every project deployed on Vercel ships with a Web Analytics panel that surfaces live visitor counts, top pages, referrers, UTM campaigns, and geographic breakdowns. All one click from the deploy button, with no separate tool to install.
```

We usually don't add backlinks to competitors

## 2. Booking.com: Live metrics on the landing page

Booking.com has made a science of turning live activity into social proof: "23 people are looking at this hotel right now." "Booked 4 times in the last 6 hours." "Only 2 rooms left at this price." These numbers are pulled from live booking and browsing data and dropped directly onto the property listing.

![Booking.com using Endpoints to create scarcity](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/booking_com_931a76829b.png)

### Why it works

The analytics aren't a side feature, [industry analysts have credited similar "shopping activation" widgets with lifting direct bookings by close to 50%](https://blog.guestcentric.com/how-hotels-can-leverage-social-proof-to-increase-direct-bookings/). Booking.com figured out that the most valuable customer-facing analytics often aren't in a dashboard. They're in the product where someone is deciding whether to buy.

## 3. Product Hunt: Making leaderboards front and centre

> [Product Hunt's](https://www.producthunt.com/) entire homepage is a customer-facing leaderboard. Every 24 hours it ranks a few hundred new launches by upvotes, comments, and reviews, and rolls the top five into permanent "Yesterday / Last Week / Last Month" slots. The ranking logic is transparent enough that makers plan launches around it; [roughly 700–800 upvotes](https://flexprice.io/blog/how-we-ranked-product-of-the-day-on-product-hunt) is the bar for a weekday #1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Product Hunt's** entire homepage is a customer-facing leaderboard. Every 24 hours it ranks a few hundred new launches by upvotes, comments, and reviews, and rolls the top five into permanent "Yesterday / Last Week / Last Month" slots. The ranking logic is transparent enough that makers plan launches around it; [roughly 700–800 upvotes](https://flexprice.io/blog/how-we-ranked-product-of-the-day-on-product-hunt) is the bar for a weekday #1.
```

---

> title: 5 of the best customer-facing analytics examples (and what to steal from each)

Reviewer: Slightly tighter
```suggestion
title: The 5 best customer-facing analytics examples (and what to steal from each)
```

> date: 2026-05-XX

Reviewer: We can set this date to today so that the blog shows up in the preview.
```suggestion
date: 2026-04-23
```

rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
    - lizzie-epton
featuredImage: >-

>     

Reviewer: the build is failing because you don't have a feature image here and it expects one. I always just include a placeholder so the build runs then change it when I get the actual image.

featuredImageType: full
category: General
tags:
    - Workflows
    - Growth
    - Lifecycle messaging
seo:

>     metaTitle: "5 of the best customer-facing analytics examples"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    metaTitle: "The 5 best customer-facing analytics examples (and what to steal from each)"
```

    metaDescription: '5 customer-facing analytics examples worth stealing, plus how to ship your own in PostHog without a data team or custom APIs.'
---

> Customer-facing analytics is the stuff you show your users, not your internal team. Their usage dashboard, "23 people are viewing this right now" counter on a product page, a leaderboard on a public homepage, and support manager's live queue inside the product they pay you for.

Reviewer: I get the last sentence relates to our HogHero app but without context, I can't understand/picture what you mean unfortunately.

```suggestion
Customer-facing analytics is the stats you show your users, not your internal team. Users' usage dashboard, a "23 people are viewing this right now" counter on a product page, a public leaderboard, or how big your support queue is.
```

What you probably didn't know is that a lot of this is quietly powered by the same kind of tech under the hood: a fast, authenticated API layer that takes product data and ships it straight into the place users will see it. At PostHog, we call this [Endpoints](/endpoints).

Endpoints are a way to expose your PostHog data as fast, versioned, authenticated APIs you can [drop straight into your product](/docs/endpoints) without maintaining a custom API backend. 

But, rather than telling you what customer-facing analytics is, we’re going to show you five companies who do it really well, and for each one, we've pulled out what's worth copying.

Here's the short version:
* [**Vercel Analytics:**](#1-vercel-analytics) embedded customer usage dashboards
* [**Booking.com:**](#2-bookingcom) live metrics on the landing page
* [**Product Hunt:**](#3-product-hunt) Making leaderboards front and centre
* [**PostHog Hoghero:**](#4-posthog-hoghero) Augmenting support data with user information

> * [**GitHub wrapped:**](#5-githubs-contribution-graph) Building a community through user analytics

Reviewer: We don't need to include this, we can have the subtitles as part of the titles and we already have a sidebar with links to the different sections. 
```suggestion
```

## 1. Vercel Analytics

> **Embedded customer usage dashboard**

Reviewer: Beyond this, I think it's fine but we generally avoid using competitors in examples.

Like I would be fine using almost any other Vercel product as an example but Vercel Analytics cuts a little close to home. 

```suggestion
## 1. Vercel Analytics: Embedded customer usage dashboard
```

[Vercel](https://vercel.com/changelog/new-usage-dashboard-for-pro-customers) is the textbook case of a dashboard that customers log in to check. Every project deployed on Vercel ships with a Web Analytics panel that surfaces live visitor counts, top pages, referrers, UTM campaigns, and geographic breakdowns. All one click from the deploy button, with no separate tool to install.

![Vercel's embedded analytics dasboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/vercel_dashboard_5e867b436f.png)

### Why it works 

> The detail Vercel has [talked about publicly](https://vercel.com/changelog/new-usage-dashboard-for-pro-customers) is latency: data shows up "seconds after enabling Analytics, not 30 minutes." They treat customer analytics with the same latency expectations as the rest of the product. If you've ever hit refresh on a dashboard wondering whether the numbers are actually live or 20 minutes stale, you know why this matters. Customer-facing analytics lose most of their value the moment users stop trusting the numbers are current.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The detail Vercel has [talked about publicly](https://vercel.com/changelog/new-usage-dashboard-for-pro-customers) is latency: data shows up "seconds after enabling Analytics, not 30 minutes." They treat customer analytics with the same latency expectations as the rest of the product. 

If you've ever hit refresh on a dashboard wondering whether the numbers are actually live or 20 minutes stale, you know why this matters. Customer-facing analytics lose most of their value the moment users stop trusting the numbers are current.
```

## 2. Booking.com

> **Live metrics on the landing page**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. Booking.com: Live metrics on the landing page
```

> [Booking.com](http://Booking.com) has made a science of turning live activity into social proof: "23 people are looking at this hotel right now." "Booked 4 times in the last 6 hours." "Only 2 rooms left at this price." These numbers are pulled from live booking and browsing data and dropped directly onto the property listing.

Reviewer: I think people know what this is

One thing I always wonder, are these numbers real or just hacks to get you to check out faster?
```suggestion
Booking.com has made a science of turning live activity into social proof: "23 people are looking at this hotel right now." "Booked 4 times in the last 6 hours." "Only 2 rooms left at this price." These numbers are pulled from live booking and browsing data and dropped directly onto the property listing.
```

![Booking.com using Endpoints to create scarcity](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/booking_com_931a76829b.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Why it works

The analytics aren't a side feature, [industry analysts have credited similar "shopping activation" widgets with lifting direct bookings by close to 50%](https://blog.guestcentric.com/how-hotels-can-leverage-social-proof-to-increase-direct-bookings/). Booking.com figured out that the most valuable customer-facing analytics often aren't in a dashboard. They're in the product where someone is deciding whether to buy.

## 3. Product Hunt

> **Making leaderboards front and centre**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Product Hunt: Making leaderboards front and centre
```

> [Product Hunt's](https://www.producthunt.com/) entire homepage is a customer-facing leaderboard. Every 24 hours it ranks a few hundred new launches by upvotes, comments, and reviews, and rolls the top five into permanent "Yesterday / Last Week / Last Month" slots. The ranking logic is transparent enough that makers plan launches around it; [roughly 700–800 upvotes](https://flexprice.io/blog/how-we-ranked-product-of-the-day-on-product-hunt) is the bar for a weekday #1.

Reviewer: Maybe something that needs to be address is "what is the difference between a database and customer-facing analytics". Comments and reviews seem like database tasks but upvotes *could* be customer-facing analytics, why?

Author: Would you expect comments, reviews and upvotes to go into your database? I see them as things that live externally and are handled externally but then I'm not used to seeing everything in a database. I see anything that could go into your warehouse as a potential Endpoint, but I guess its easier with qauntitative/numerical data.

> ![ProductHun'ts homepage leaderboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/producthunt_6ca9a9dc9e.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![ProductHunt's homepage leaderboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/producthunt_6ca9a9dc9e.png)
```

### Why it works

The leaderboard is both the recommendation feed for readers and the scoreboard for makers. The more people check it, the more valuable ranking on it becomes. Leaderboards get dismissed as a gimmick, but what Product Hunt did was turn a database of upvotes into the product.

## 4. PostHog Hoghero

> **Augmenting support data with user information**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 4. HogHero: Augmenting support data with user information
```

> Here’s one of the ways we use Endpoints ourselves: HogHero, our internal Zendesk app. When a customer opens a support ticket, HogHero shows our support rep the recent conversations that customer had with Max, PostHog's AI, before they reached a human. The rep gets the context instantly and they start the conversation already halfway to the answer.

Reviewer: 1. Max is dead (RIP)
2. I'd love a bit more about how this works? We capture analytics about PostHog AI chats, create an endpoint with the `chat started` event, create an endpoint for it, and then create a Zendesk plugin using the endpoint? 

```suggestion
One of the ways we use Endpoints is HogHero, our internal Zendesk app. 

When a customer opens a support ticket, HogHero shows our support rep the recent conversations that customer had with PostHog AI before they reached a human. The rep gets the context instantly and they start the conversation already halfway to the answer.
```

![PostHog HogHero dashboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/posthog_hoghero_877cc43b1c.png)

### Why it works 

> Our support reps don't have to waste time jumping between Zendesk and our analytics tool. The Endpoint exposes a specific piece of data to the user so they don't have to waste time getting lost in data chaos.

Reviewer: Maybe there is something here about "Endpoints data doesn't always need to go to your own product, it can be a valuable part of your workflows in other products too"?

## 5. GitHub's contribution graph

> **Building a community through user analytics**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 5. GitHub's contribution graph: Building a community through user analytics
```

> The green-square contribution graph on every [GitHub](https://github.com/) profile is one of the most-copied analytics patterns on the internet. It's a one-year heatmap of commits, PRs, issues, and reviews, rendered on your public profile. It's functionally a behavior-change mechanic: "[don't break the streak](https://zachholman.com/posts/streaks/)" is a GitHub joke precisely because the graph makes the streak visible to you and everyone who looks at your profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The green-square contribution graph on every GitHub profile is one of the most-copied analytics patterns on the internet. It's a one-year heatmap of commits, PRs, issues, and reviews, rendered on your public profile. It's functionally a behavior-change mechanic: "[don't break the streak](https://zachholman.com/posts/streaks/)" is a meme precisely because the graph makes the streak visible to you and everyone who looks at your profile.
```

![One PostHogger's GitHub wrapped](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/q_auto,f_auto/git_wrapped_Gilbert09_81a0301f06.png)

### Why it works

> Not only does it gamify engagement (the duolingo of coding?) It's spawned an entire third-party ecosystem of "[GitHub Wrapped](https://git-wrapped.com/)" tools built by people filling in the year-in-review who wanted to share their streaks creating a viral community moment that's great for GitHub’s brand. Once you expose customer-facing analytics, users will ask for more, and some of them will just go build it themselves.

Reviewer: I think it's too light of gamification to be compared to Duolingo.
```suggestion
Not only does it gamify engagement, it's spawned an entire third-party ecosystem of "[GitHub Wrapped](https://git-wrapped.com/)" tools. These are built by people who want to share their streaks which creates a viral community moment that's great for GitHub’s brand. 

Once you expose customer-facing analytics, users will ask for more and some of them will just go build it themselves.
```

## Make your customer-facing analytics a success

> Across all five, the same few decisions keep showing up:

Reviewer: I'm not sure principles are the right word, but close enough
```suggestion
## The principles to make your customer-facing analytics a success

Across all five, the same few principles keep showing up:
```

> * The data is live, or close enough that users trust it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The data is live, or close enough, that users trust it.
```

> * It's embedded where the decision happens, in the listing, the dashboard, the profile, not parked in a separate reports section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It's embedded where the decision happens: in the listing, dashboard, or profile. It's not parked in a separate reports section.
```

> * It's scoped to the viewer, customers see their own numbers, teams see their team's numbers, buyers see the listing's numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It's scoped to the viewer. Customers see their own numbers, teams see their team's numbers, buyers see the listing's numbers.
```

* It's owned like a product feature, not a data-team deliverable. Someone owns the latency, the UX, and the roadmap.

## Endpoints makes customer-facing analytics simple

> Inspired to get some customer-facing analytics live yourself? We’re biased but we think you should check out Endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inspired to build customer-facing analytics yourself? We’re biased but we think you should check out [Endpoints](/endpoints).
```

> The best part? You don’t need to be super technical. If you're a PM who wants to put a live usage metric in your product, a marketer who wants campaign numbers flowing into a report, or an ops lead who wants a customer-facing dashboard that just works, Endpoints is built to be simple for you. Here's how it fits together:

Reviewer: Is endpoints the best tool to add campaign numbers to a report? It's not one of the examples.

Also, do we have something better for the ops person than "just works"?

If no to both these, maybe we just drop this paragraph. This conclusion is quite long compared to the piece anyways. We don't usually do such heavy call-to-actions.

1. **Start from something you already have in PostHog.** Open any saved insight, trend, or SQL query you've already built. If you've got a number you trust inside PostHog, you're 90% of the way there.

> 2. **Turn it into an Endpoint with a click. Endpoints wraps your query in a fast, versioned, authenticated API — no backend setup, no pipeline, no new tool to learn.

Reviewer: What button do I click to turn this insight into an endpoint?

<img width="2434" height="1540" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/df80c839-13eb-41a3-bb2e-53d0164b3f45" />

> 3. **Drop it wherever you need the number to show up.** Your product, a customer-facing dashboard, a Retool or Notion page, an internal Slack bot, an AI workflow — anywhere that accepts a URL or an API call.

Reviewer: I generally think customer-facing analytics is more intensive than just dropping a URL, you usually have to build a dashboard, feature, agent around it? 

What feature of Notion just lets you paste in an endpoint?

Reviewer: This inspires a thought that you could use endpoints to give agents access to some specific, up-to-date data without them needing to query everything.

Could build like tools/skills with endpoints for popular queries instead of needing to do it over and over again. "You've run this query X times, do you want to create it as an endpoint?" Might be cool feature 🤷
